Thank you everyone for your responses to the survey last week. Here are my comments on the survey questions.

# What is your Favorite Animal?

Cat: IIIIIIIIIIII -- 12, yay!
Dog: IIIIIIIIII -- 10

No Animal: II -- totally valid!

Panda: II
Rabbit: II
Tiger: II
Wolf: II

Alpaca: I
Bear: I
Bird: I
Boar: I
Camel: I
Crow: I
Elephant: I
Etopilica: I
Frog: I
Jaguar: I
Hedgehog: I
Owl: I
Rhino: I
Swallow: I

# Give an example of a comparison experiment that must be paired

The key idea when deciding if a experiment must be paired or not, is to try to
answer the following question: This experiment must be paired on "X". If you
can't define a concrete X, you need to clarify your experiment more.

In general, to make sure your response is correct, remember to make it explicit:
"We pair on X". A lot of the incorrect answers suggested experiments that might
have factors that could deserve pairing, but they did not make explicit which
factors they were pairing, so I couldn't tell if the student actually knew the
answer.

Also note that the factor being paired is NOT a factor of interest.
We are pairing to remove the effect of that factor. So if you are interested
in the effect of a factor, you should NOT pair on it.

Also note that sometimes we can avoid pairing by changing the experiment design.
One response was "measure sweating on different exercises, pair on person".
This is not incorrect, but if you have a large enough pool of participants,
you can also select completely different participants for the experiment.

On the other hand, if you have a small number of participants (10 people
  to watch a sad movie), then you use pairing to compensate for the small
  number of people.

One interesting wrong example is: Compare sorting algorithms on different
random input data. Why is this example wrong? Because, in principle, we do not
expect the performance of the sorting algorithm to be fundamentally different
in randomly sorted data (of course, there are worst cases). In this case,
pairing on the data is overkill, and can lead to the same kind of error as
using the pairing calculation in an unpaired data set.

For example:
- The shoe experiment must be paired on the position of the player
- The algorithm experiment must be paired on the benchmark problem;
- Different method to dry clothes, paired on the fabric of the cloth;
- Compare the performance of athletes before and after an exercise, pair on athletes;
- Compare effects of fertilizer on plant growth, pair on specific plants;
- Compare speed of GPU vs CPU, pair on application in the benchmark;
- Compare two different GPUs on gaming frame rate, pair on game;


# Difference between "One Tailed" and "Two Tailed" tests

Most of you got this question right. "One Tailed" and "Two Tailed" test indicates
how we model the critical zone, more specifically which sides (tails) of the distribution
that we are using.

Another way to think about this difference is regarding the Null and Alternate hypothesis
that we use. In the One tailed test, H0 is >= than a certain value, and H1 is < than that value
value (or vice versa). In the Two tailed test, H0 is == to a certain value, and H1 is <> than that value.

One important thing to remember about the differences between one tailed test and two tailed test is that
when we perform the Two-tailed test, the critical region must be divided equally in both directions.

One student related one tailed and two tailed tests with ANOVA, but that is not absolutely necessary.

# Other Comments

> Why do you think CS suffers from lack of scientific rigor?

There are several reasons, but I think one important reason is that there is an excessive focus in "competition"
research, in which the objective is to develop a system A that is better than a system B (for example, beating SOTA),
without understanding WHY the system A is better than B, or what that means in general.

> I just arrived in Japan after a difficult time(in custom), still need time to adapt to live in Japan. Now there(Hotel) is not even a stable network to watch videos.

Don't worry, you can catch up with the videos after you leave the hotel!

> In the questionnaire, why did you ask us about our interests.

Because we do not have face-to-face classes, I think this is an interesting way to interact with the students. I learn new things when asking you simple questions. For example, today I learned that there is an animal called "Etopilica".I hope that you can also learn some things when reading the answers from the other students. A scientist must be curious about all things, not only research!

> I curious what data you want from these random questions in the survey. I like it tho.

I store the data, but I have not used it yet. If you have a good idea of how to use the data, feel free to share!

> I am sorry for missing last week's survey professor. I misinterpreted the fact of not having classes with not having to attend and didn't notice the survey.

That is okay, last week was a bit unusual.

> Could you please share the names of the textbooks to be referred for this course? Apologies if you have already shared it during initial lectures, please share the reference point where you have shared. Thanks in advance.

There is a list of textbooks in manaba, and also sometimes I add textbooks in the slides PDF, even if I don't read them in the video. I will try to share more textbooks in the future.

> I think my  first report is an experiment that need to be paired, but I didn't use paired method given by this week's class.

Yes, that's why I did not evaluate the first report regarding hypothesis testing.

> Some of this might be a little quick, sometimes I want to need more examples

I will try to add more examples in the future!
