# About Report 2

Everyone should now start thinking about what experiments you want to do for report number two.

Please use what you learned in report number one when choosing the experiment design for report number two. In particular, please feel free to consult with me to help decide your experiment and how you will analyze it.

Remember that the idea of Report 02 is the same as the idea for report 01, except that now you are expected to perform a more complete statistical analysis of your report. You need to take into account things such as:

1- Calculate the sample size necessary for your experiment;
2- Consider running a pilot experiment to obtain estimates for variance;
3- Consider paired analysis or multiple sample analysis;
4- Consider the need for non-parametric statistics;

All these topics will be discussed in future classes.

# About Social Media

Last week, I asked you to give "order of preference" data about your favorite social media.
Unfortunately this data was a bit hard to analyze quickly, so I will only summarize the main comments below. I hope I can do a numerical analysis in the future:

- A lot of people like Teams, and find it more complete than Zoom, which I found suprising.
- Few people liked Zoom. Those who did liked the simple interface.
- A few people said that most options could not be used in China. I'm curious about which services from China would be easy to use in Japan.
- A lot of people like Discord, because they already use it for their gaming and hobby groups.
- One person suggested Ovice, which is used in their laboratory
- Another person said that Gather is used for their laboratory zemi, with everyone using avatars.

- Finally, two people said they really like Manaba <3, and 3 people are e-mail loyalists.

# Other Comments

> I was worried about the subject matter of the experiment, but as a result, I enjoyed the report.
> Thank you for the helpful comments on my report, I will try to do better next time!
> Although my score was not very high. But from the examples, I have a better understanding of what is needed to design an experiment.
> The comments on the report1 are veyr helpful. Thank you very much.
> I learned from the comments in this class that my report did not give enough consideration. I should have explained the factors related to the results and proposed further study.

I hope that everyone can improve their report and quiz every time! There is always room for improvement! Don't hesitate to ask questions!

> Regarding to the assignment, I got my result and also have a theory to explain the phenomena I observed. Should work on some experiment that varify my theory?

That is a good idea! Make sure your theory is falsifiable, though! Also, for the second report, consider the additional questions that I put on the top of this post.

> Could you give us past questions and examples of the final exam? (You said that the final exam will be like week attendance surveys, but I want to give you a little more detail.)

I plan to give a sample exam on the last week. But really, it will be close to the weekly question in the attendance survey.

> Would it be possible to divide the students in groups so that we can work together during assignments or discuss the subject relevant topics?

That is a good idea. I did not consider this last year because the number of students was small. But with a larger number of students this may be possible.

> Thank you for prepraring the course. I think the materials and lectures are very nice. I'm a little curious about what experiment other students did in the first homework. I wonder if there is a way to share some interesting experiments without loss of privacy.

Yes, I plan to ask some students to share their experiments/reports as examples before the end of the course.

> I am confused regarding, on how to come to a conclusion based on the dataset? My analysis was based on the dataset. You mentioned "It appears that this was decided based on this specific set of data, but without knowing the base rate, this choice can be deceiving". I am little confused on what you mean by base rate?

When you make an interview about a subjective opinion (for example, do you like coffee?) the base rate is what most people think, even before the experiment begins. For example, if you do an interview asking "is coffee better than juice", you might have different results if you ask children, and if you ask adults. So when you prepare an experiment based on a subjective interview, your conclusions must be guided by the characteristics of the people that you chose to interview. It is not a problem to interview people of only one age range, or only one city, or people that already like something, but this must be reflected in your experiment description and conclusion, so that you do not mistake what is a local opinion, and what is an universal fact.

Thank you all for the comments!
