# Survey Result Discussion

- About the report:
  - No fixed length, 2-4 pages suggested
  - You should frame the experiment as "get information about A and B", not "Is A or B better". This will help think about exploring the question with curiosity rather than just trying to answer a question with the minimum of information possible.

  Example: Rather than "Do shirts dry faster inside or in the varanda", "measure the drying speed of shirts inside and in the varanda"

# Question: Is one Random Uniform Sample Biased?

- Biased: 15
- Unbiased: 24
- Hedge Answer: 5

The correct answer is "Unbiased", this is because the error of this estimator is not systematic. In other words, the Expected Value of this estimator is the same as the true mean.

Example of "Yes" answer: "Yes it would be biased. With only a single sample, there is no way to assure that the sample is within any deviation of the statistical mean, and is not just an outlier."

Example of "No" answer: "It is a unbiased estimator. However, due to the small sample space and the possibility of accidental situations, the error may be extremely large"

Example of a hedging answer: "We need to perform many experiments to avoid error / The error will be very large"

It seems like a large number of students are still confused about the difference between "error" and "bias". Bias is a *systematic* error. Mathematically, it is defined as the difference between the expected value of an estimator, and the true value.

It is not enough for an estimator to have error to be biased (all estimators have errors!) and the magnitude of the error is not related to bias. An estimator with a very small error could also be biased.

Why is the bias of an estimator important? Because the statistics (calculations) that we use to analyze estimators assume that the estimator is unbiased. It is difficult to create statistics that account for systematic biases. On the other hand, there are many statistics that can compensate for unbiased errors.

Another interesting thing is that even some students that answered "It is not biased", still felt the need to write long sentences to justify that the estimator was "not good" or "had large error". I find this interesting, because it reflects our common usage of the word "biased" as "bad", so maybe we reflexively think that "not biased" must mean good. This is not true. During this course, let's focus on the statistical meanings of terms.

# Question: Advantages of Confidence Interval in an experiment:

- Information about uncertainty: IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
- Wrong: II

## General answer:
- A Confidence interval gives us more information (the amount of uncertainty associated with the estimate). This information can be further controlled by
using the alpha parameter of the confidence interval.

## Small mistakes:
- "Because by analyzing samples from a population, we cannot get the precise result of its average values."

Both the point estimate and the confidence interval are calculated by analyzing samples from the population.

- "A point interval gives us the certainity of the interval containing the real value".

Maybe this is an English mistake, but the confidence interval does not GUARANTEE that the real value will be contained in it. It has a probability to include the real value, and that probability can be controlled, to a degree. It also let us evaluate the range of possibel solutions, giving us a measure of understaning of the uncertainty related to our experiment.

- "A confidence interval gives the probabiility of a value (true value of a parameter) to be inside of a statistical interval."

This is a small nuance, but it is important to understand the difference. The Confidence interval does not calculate the probability of a value to be inside the statistical interval. The Confidence Interval calculates a region where the value may be. This region calculated correctly includes the value with X% confidence.

# Question: Streams or Youtube?

Streams: 10
Youtube: 20
Either: 18

- Youtube: Load fast***, UI***, automatic translation***, notifications, public video
- Streams: All lectures are already here, It's official.

# General Comments

> "I still have no idea about what is good choice for my experiment"

I hope you had time to discover. Please do not hesitate to contact me directly for questions! Anyway, a good choice for an experiment is an experiment that is easy for you to execute and understand, and that contains some interesting information.

One example, from a discussion I had with one student, was: An experiment to discover the time that it takes to dry your laundry in different locations in you apartment: The varanda, the living room, or the bathroom.

> "I want parameter definition of equation in each slides."

Good suggestion, I will try to improve that in the future.

> "If it is not a computer related experiment, what experimental materials need to be submitted?"

Include a CSV file with the data that you collected in your experiment,
and a script file with the code that you used to calculate the statistics and figures in your experiment.

> "I wish the exams can be a little more friendly to overseas students"

Please contact me directly if the exam time is not convenient for you.

> "Maybe we need more process about the formula derivation"

That is a though problem. The derivation of the formula requires some knowledge about distributions. In past years I spent more time derivating formulas, and I felt that the students did not learn as much from the exercise, when compared to just explaining the implications of the formulas. I will try to find a better balance, but any suggestion in this sense is welcome.

> "As a foreigner, sometimes I can't accurately understand the definition of some concepts. What should I do?"

Use the "Forum" option to ask questions about concepts in manaba

> BTW, there was Yo Dawg behind you.

Yo Dawg is my favorite meme, because of Recursion.

> More coding examples with data

I will do my best.

> Thank you very much for your clear PPT content!

Thank you, but it is not Powerpoint ;-)

> Professor, I'm sorry, but I'd like to ask a question that has nothing to do with the course. I saw that your hobbies include game programming. I also want to develop some attractive game but I have little knowledge and experience of it. I don't know how to start develop a game, could you please give me some advice?

I recommend learning PICO-8, and using it to create some classical games, like "snakes" or "breakout". After that, you can create more interesting games with more complex tools. If you want to talk more about this, come to the Office Hours!

> Could you please give us more time on finishing this survey? We have a lot of courses in the Spring A semester.

This is a hard question, because I use the survey to prepare the material for next week. This survey is not graded, so you should not spend a lot of time in it. I will try to increase the time a bit, but I recommend that you spend at most 15 minutes after reading the material to finish the Survey.
