# Survey Result Discussion

Hello everyone, thank you for answering the survey questions this week. I will comment on your answers to the questions below.

Regarding the concept questions, a lot of people gave answers that showed a lack of understanding of some of the concepts in the class. I try to address this below, and I will try to reinforce these concepts in future classes.

But if you feel like you don't fully understand some concept, please  come to the Office Hours and ask questions about any concepts that are not clear to you!

# Question: What information should you report about a single sample hypothesis test, when the result of the experiment rejects the null hypothesis?

This question had many incorrect or incomplete answers. Please make sure to study the material carefully and read the suggested texts to understand well the message of the class.

The key message of this question is that it is not enough to report on a hypothesis test using only the "Accept/Reject" information. You should also include information about the *result of the experiment* (Estimate value, Confidence interval, effect size), the *result of the test* (Accept/Reject, P-value), and the *conditions of the experiment* (significance level, sample size, assumptions, etc).

In particular, note that the text of the question already states that the null hypothesis was rejected by the data, so only answering "The null hypothesis is rejected" just repeats what I told you. That should have been a hint that the correct answer is more detailed than that.

The expected Answer should contain most of the following information (ordered by importance)
- Confidence Interval of the Estimate: 5 people
- Value of the Estimate / Effect size: 6 people
- Accept/Reject Result: 27 people
- P-value of the test: 10 people
- Parameters of the test (assumptions, sample size, sig. level, etc): 9 people


- Answers with only "accept/reject", and no more info: 22 people
- Answers considered "fully correct": 7 people
- Answers wildly off base: 7 people

# Question: When should you use a Normal Distribution or a T distribution for the single sample Hypothesis test?

Expected answer: Normal distribution is used for known variance, and T distribution for unknown variance.

Correct: 29 people
Incorrect: 14 people

One common answer was: "T-distribution: small sample, Normal: Large sample" - It is interesting that this answer was so common, since I did not use this argument in class. While it is not incorrect, I think that this answer need a bit more clarification, so I only counted it as correct if the student showed they understood why this is an acceptable alternative answer,

The reason why the T-distribution is recommended for small samples is because, as the sample size becomes larger, the T distribution tends to become closer to the normal. In other words, with a large enough sample size, the estimation of the variance is close enough to the true variance that we can use the normal curve.

But why would we want to use the normal curve for the test, if we can
use the T curve? The reason is that the normal curve has fewer
parameters for a similar model. Following the principle of parsimony,
which we discussed last class, we prefer to use simpler models,
when they are equivalent to more complex models.

# Question: What is your Favorite Science Fiction Story?

- Interstellar IIII
- Matrix: IIII
- Three Body Problem IIII
- Pacific Rim III
- Agents of Shield
- Amazing Spiderman
- Avatar
- Back to the Future
- Black Mirror
- Bloodborne
- Colorless Green
- Cyberpunk 2077
- Death Stranding
- Edge of Tomorrow
- Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
- Final Fantasy
- Foundation
- Ghost in the Shell (1995)
- Harry Potter
- Imitation Game
- Iron Man
- Knights of Sidonia
- Nerdcast RPG Cyberpunk
- Resident Evil
- Shinichi Hoshi's Works
- Star Wars
- Story of Your Life
- Summer Wars
- Sword Art Online
- The Last Question
- The Man from Earth
- Transformers
- Understand
- 20000 Leagues Under the Sea

"I love the Matrix because the story is futuristic and interesting despite the movie being made over 20 years ago"

# Comments and Feedback

> I used python in last week's experiment because I thought Python is easier to analyze data. What are the benefits of using R?

Python and R are both good programming languages when it comes to data analysis. R was a language that was originally developed for statistical analysis, so there are many small constructs in the language that makes it easy to perform the sorts of functions that we usually do when analyzing tabular data. For example, most base functions in R are vectorizable. Also, R has a very powerful plotting library in ggplot2.

On a more abstract level, as a Computer Scientist, it is a good idea to get some experience in several different languages, so that you can separate your general programming ability from your ability on one specific language.

However, using R is not a requirement of this course. If you prefer python, go ahead!

> 1. Could you give example of real world scenarios that we know real variance?

Of course, knowing exactly the real variance very rare in real world scenarios (unless we are dealing with simulations). However, when we are dealing with scenarios that had been examined before (for example, study of a well known animal species), we can find "known" variance values in the literature.

> 2. on pg. 35 how do we use  d estimator?

You use the "d" estimator when you want to calculate an absolute level of difference from a relative one. For example, you want to make sure that your test can detect a 5% difference in speed (1.05). So you use the estimate of variance with the 5% value to calculate how much difference you should use in the "delta" for your test.

> Before I took this course, I didn't know that this course was strongly related to mathematics. For me, it was a bit difficult because I am not good at mathematics and I don't know some math terms in English.

To be a well rounded computer scientist, it is important to have some knowledge in mathematics and statistics. If you have difficulties with specific terms, feel free to ask in the Forum in manaba, or in the Office Hours.

> I hope our examination questions can be more specific.

I plan to have the examination questions similar to the
attendance quiz question. They are more conceptual questions than
calculation questions.

> Is there the way to set the alpha value for our experiment?

The "traditional" value of alpha is 0.05 (95% confidence). However,
this value is based on the idea of analogous experiments. When we consider digital experiments, that can be repeated many times with very high precision, we might want to use higher values of alpha, such as 0.01 (99% confidence) or even 0.001.

> In computer science, sometimes we can repeat the experiment for million times. Is this always a good thing to repeat more experiment?

No, usually repeating an experiment too many times has diminishing returns, can be just useless, or can even mask more important information. Towards the end of the course we will talk about some techniques to calculate the number of repetitions necessary for an experiment, depending on the desired confidence and power of the experiment.

> When I did my first assignment and learned some knowledge about statistical inference, this week's course is easier to understand. Could you please write the main related knowledge in the front of the lecture note so that I can learn it before I watch videos?
> There are some terms in this lesson that I don't understand very well, I need to watch more books and videos on statistics.

That is a great idea, unfortunately, there is limited time to cover the basic statistical knowledge required for this course. I will try to add more related readings so the students can do preparatory readings as necessary.
