Hello Everyone!

This is the last "Feed Back Reply" thread. I would like to thank everyone for all their answers and comments.

I hope you found the simulated test I shared last week insightful. As you can see, the questions are similar to the questions that we had every week.

I wish everyone a good final examination this week, and I look forward to read your reports after that!

On to the questions.

# Question 1: Plan for Summer Vacation

A lot of people mentioned study, research and internships. After that, travelling,
and meeting friends/families were the most popular options.

Take the opportunity to use your vacations to relax, do new things, and broaden
your horizons!

Doing Research / Internship: IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Travel: IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Social (Friends, Family): IIIIIIIII
Hobbies: II
No Idea: II

## Special Mentions:
- Climb Mount Fuji
- Summer Sonic Festival

# Question 2: List the Variables used in Experiment 1

Everyone got this question right, I'm really happy about this.

I hope you noticed that this is a good exercise to check if you understand your own experiment. When you make your variables and their levels explicit, sometimes you can check if your experiment is too complex, or if some part of your experiment is unclear to yourself.

A few notes:
- When you list a variable which is a real number (be it the response variable, or the control variable), it is useful to explicitely list the expected range of values for that variable, and the unit, to make sure that you understand the possibilities of the experiment.

- If the response variable is a formula (for example, the proportion between wins and losses), it is useful to make the formula explicit in this step, for the same reason as above.

- A couple students listed multiple response variables, or a large number of control variables. As we saw in the last lecture, having many control variables introduces complications to the experiment, so you may want to rethink your experiment in that case. In this course, we did not study methods for multiple response variables. In general you want to break your experiment so that you study each response variable separately. In some very few cases, it may be feasible to study a combination of the response variables through some sort of formula.

# Question 3: When to use OVAT or Factorial?

OVAT design and factorial design have their positive and negative points. The main points to remember is that OVAT will not detect interaction effect between variables. And that Factorial Design requires a large number of comparisons (expensive experiment), for even a relatively small number of control factors.

Some small errors:
- "The situation an experiment has one control factor." -- Be careful, this answer is not complete. For example, it is not clear which method should be used in the case that you listed.
- "no idea" -- Please review the materials :-)
- "I prefer an OVAT design when ... or the statistical analysis is independent." -- This wording is not very good, because we as the experimenters choose the statistical analysis. The statistical analysis of the effects is independent when we choose the OVAT design.
- "When the levels of other factors are fixed at a "standard" value, we prefer an OVAT" -- This is incorrect. To perform the OVAT, we need to chose a standard value for each factor, but that is not a pre-condition for the design.

Also, remember that in real life, nothing prevents you from doing BOTH analysis. For example, starting with a "quick and dirty" OVAT analysis, and then proceeding to a factorial analysis if you feel it is warranted.

# General Comments

> In the slide "Example: Pre-processing the data", you decided to apply RCBD after collecting data. But if you decide to apply RCBD before collecting data, is there any part of the experiment that you can improve? For instance, reducing observations.

That is a very good question. To be honest, in this course we have focused on the situation where we do one experiment and perform one analysis but, as I mentioned before, in practice this is an interactive process. You perform small scale experiments to obtain a good idea about the nature of your data, and slowly increases your experiment, using more complex designs and analysis. In this case, we can use information from an earlier experiment to create the blog design and reduce the number of observations in a future experiment.

> It is too difficult for me to remember formulas which is introduced in this lectures. Will there be questions on the exam that use formulas to solve?

The general philosophy of this course is that you can always check a textbook for the formulas, it is more important to understand the importance of statistical analysis
and the general procedures and way of thinking.

> There seems to have been an error (?) in the R sample code (P17) and the result is not the same as on the slide.
> I think in slide 13, in the problem statement inclusion of 6 variants is missing.

Thank you! I will fix it for next year!

> Last last week I wrote a comment that I am not sure about the test size and degree of interest. When I am designing an experiment, I can choose alpha and the power. But, I am not sure about degree of interest and test size. How should I find degree of interest to choose test size? or do I have to set a test size and see if the result exceeds degree of interest?

There are two ways to go about it. You can do a small pilot experiment to obtain some initial information about your experiment. Or you can do interactively, as you suggested.

> For Factorial design, when the number of experimental factors or levels is large, the scale of the experiment is too large and difficult to implement. In this case, how can we control the scale of the experiment?

There are alternatives to reduce the size of the factorial design, such as the Latin Hypercube Design. Unfortunately, I did not have time to teach it in this class, but you can look it up in more advanced textbooks on experiment design.

> Can the topic I mentioned in the just be used as homework? I don't know how much the whole content needs to be written.

I am sorry, but as I don't see the name of the student when checking the feedback comments, I don't know what you are talking about :-(

> There are some discussions about the use of OVAT and Factorial Design. Some scientists argue that OVAT are out of the date and inefficient, compared to Factorial Design. Should we use Factorial Design rather than OVAT when necessary?

I think that both designs have their use cases. In fact, a full factorial design is almost impossible to execute if you have a large number of control factors, which is very common when researching algorithm design. Also, there are many more designs other than these two. If you are interested in this topic, please make sure to read more about experiment design after the class is finished!
