Hello Everyone, 

I'm sorry for last week. I have summarized the planned materials in this week.

Next week, we will have a review for the final examination.

Also, please do not forget your Report #2


# Question: Travel in Time and Space

## Asia (x9)
- Kyoto (x2)
- Kyushu
- Universal Studios Japan
- Kawakyu, Wakayama
- Japan
- Okinawa
- South Korea
- Hainan Island, China

## Europe (x8)
- Germany
- Poland
- UK
- Genoa
- Iceland (x2)
- France (x2)
- Rome
- Switzerland

## US (x6)
- Hawaii (x2)
- US x2
- Casino in Las Vegas (x2)

## Space (x5)
- Space Station (x3)
- The moon (x2)

## Other Places
- Australia (Great Barrier Reef)
- Small island away from the Internet
- The Egypt (Pyramids)

## Time Travel (x10)
- See the Bigbang
- Roswell, 1947 (UFO story)
- Tokyo in WW2
- New York at the Twin-Tower attack
- Give advice to self in the past
- Go back to high school
- Go to the far away future of earth (x4) (2200, 2520, 3022)


# Question: When should you not use 30 repetitions.

Most people got this question right! Here are a few correct reasons, in order of importance.

- When you calculate the sample size of the experiment (based on the desired power), the result was different than 30.
- When the cost of the experiment is too high, it may be impossible to have 30 (or more) observations.
- When the experiment requires special conditions that are hard to replicate.
- When we are using a statistical analysis that does not require the assumption of normality.


A few answers that were incorrect are below:

- "When we don't need high accuracy". The number of observations is not related to the experiment accuracy, but rather with its power and confidence.

- "One of the situations is that the sample follows a noraml distribution. In the situation, CLT doesn't make sense." -- The CLT still applies for a variable following the normal distribution.

- "I don't think there can be a smaller sample size than 30 samples". -- Oh, it is definitely possible to have sample size smaller than 30 observations.

- "When the case is random" -- I did not understand this answer.

- Many people gave specific example of experiments ("When estimating the proportion of left handed people in a school."). This is not a good answer if you don't explain WHY ("When estimating the proportion of left handed people in a school. Because one observation is a classroom, and the school has less than 30 classrooms"). If you don't give the specific reason, I will not consider your answer to be correct.

# Calculation of Sample Size for the experiment:

This question was a bit of a trick one, because to obtain the answer, you need 
to choose some variables that were not specified. Namely the delta (difference of 
interest), and which of the experiments was to be analyzed.

Anyway, the main objective of this question is to have you try and apply the 
calculations for sample size described in the lecture. So if you follow the procedure 
below, you should find a sensible answer. 

If you had difficulty with this question (a few people said they did not know how to
calculate) make sure you read the class materials and recommended reading again, because 
the calculation of sample sizes is an important subject.

Calculation of sample size procedure:
- Choose alpha, beta and d. You can choose d based on specific requests of the experiment,
  or by using the standard deviation multiplied by some small number.
- Obtain the standard deviation either from problem knowledge, or using the sample error 
  as an estimate.
- Using this information, calculate the sample size (n) of one sample using the 
  power.t.test() function in R.

## Sample sizes calculated by students
(Not all of these calculations followed the correct procedure above)

- 7 Observations
- 9 Observations
- 20 Observations
- 26/27 Observations (x3)
- 30 Observations
- 34 Observations
- 40/41 Observations (x3)
- 48 Observations
- 51 Observations
- 86 Observations
- 89 Observations
- 95 Observations
- 110 Observations
- 128 Observations (x2)
- 171 Observations
- 1000 Observations (x2) ??????


# General Comments:

> If normality and homoscedasticity are violated, may I use Kurskal-Wallis test instead of ANOVA.

Yes, in general you can always use a non-parametric test in place of a parametric one. Just note that the power of the test will be weaker.

> Explanation of Terms is common in assignments  at the university. When we make the answer, which should be prioritized commnly? Make an answer without looking at the material to demonstrate your understanding, or make an answer by quoting from the material?

It depends on the type of assignment. Some assignments are "Open Book", which means that you are allowed to refer to materials. While other assignments are "Closed Book", which means you are not allowed to refer to materials.

Make sure to check what kind of assignment is it. Also, even if the assignment is Open Book, if you use a reference, you should cite the reference that you used.

> I'm not sure I used the correct sample size here because of the aggregation.

That is a very good question. In this case, the aggregation would affect the estimation of the standard deviation, but usually this effect is not important, since you are interested in the aggregated result anyway.

> About Q3, I understand that I can use power.t.test to calculate the power and the sample size, but I don't understand how set each parameter._x000D_ For these tests, I could guess n=31, type="two.sample", alternative="two.sided" to obtain the power, but how should I set the sd and delta?

If sd is not available from problem knowledge, you can estimate it from the sample error. For delta, it needs to be estimated from problem knowledge. In the case of Q3, where you don't have problem knowledge, using a small multiple of sd is also appropriate.

> Do we have to calculate in the exam?

You do not have to do any complicated calculations. Although very simple calculations (for example, the total number of combinations in a factorial design) might be asked.

> It was mentioned in the lecture4. Power: The probability of a Type II Error. I understand what Power means here. In the lecture5, another Power Distribution was mentioned. I searched for related information, but couldn't find its specific definition. Can you tell me? Is it the same as a probability distribution?_x000D_ Thank you.

Ah, that is a very good question. The "Power" of an experiment, and the "Power Distribution" are completely different concepts.

- Power of an experiment, means the probability of type II error, or how sensitive the experiment is to small differences between the null hypothesis and real value. An experiment with low power can only detect very big differences, while an experiment with high power can detect even small differences.

- Power Distribution. A statistical distribution which follows a power law. For example, y = kx^a.

Please be careful to not confuse these two concepts.

> In my understanding, when we do bootstrap, we must treat it as if the new sample is sampling distribution instead of population distribution, right? Then, if we want to do t-test/ANOVA/power calculation on bootstrap sample, we must use different formula from normal t-test/ANOVA/power calculation formula when we deal with normal sample, right?

Actually the formulas are similar, because the sampling distributon tends to follow a normal distribution. The main difference is that the standard error will be much smaller. 

> I wanted to practice all the scenarios explained in the class through examples to understand the concepts much better, I will try to do this using R.

Yes, please use the data files provided to repeat the R code shown in class.

> I still can't understand the minimally relevant effect size very well, how to determine this amount?

The minimally relevant effect size is the size of the difference between two values that is important to you. To give you an example, if you repeat a simulation experiment 1.000.000 times, it is possible to find a difference of 1 nano-second that in theory (according to the formula) is statistically significant. However, this difference has no practical meaning.

So it is necessary to choose a minimal difference that is important for the research being done.

